Vincent van Gogh (1853-1890), perhaps the most famous artist in the world, is perceived by many as the 'mad' artist, the man who painted in a frenzy or simply the tormented soul who cuts off his ear.
His artistic genius is often overshadowed by those who see his paintings as mere visual manifestations of his troubled mind. Whilst in part this may be true, in reality his innovative and unique artistic style was of enormous importance to a host of artists who followed in his wake.
The career of Vincent van Gogh as a painter was short, but his paintings revolutionized artistic practice and styles.
Although the artist's first formal job after leaving school was art-related, he did not begin painting in earnest until years later.
The position involved travel and certainly exposure to the contemporary art of his day, but van Gogh would move on to religious work and a brief stint as a bookseller before producing the first Van Gogh painting.
His earliest works, completed from 1881 through 1883, reflect a novice's attention to detail as well as hints of the nascent genius that would fully emerge in his later paintings.
Vincent's Still Life With Cabbage and Clogs, one of his first paintings, makes use of the somber earth tones that characterize his early works in the Dutch style.
It also features a rich splash of color, a harbinger of the brilliant Van Gogh painting style to come.
Van Gogh landscape painting of 1883 Bulb Fields testifies to the artist's awakening to the expressive use of light and color so prominent in his later work.
In the foreground of the painting, hyacinths in white, blue, pink and golden hues fill garden boxes that lead to eye toward a distant hillside and a sky filled with white clouds.
During a stay in the northern village of Nuenen in late 1883 through 1885, the painter focused on agrarian scenes of peasants working the soil and weavers plying their craft.
Theo, an art dealer, introduced his brother to the works of prominent Impressionist painters such as Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Georges Seurat, all of which had strong influences on the artist's future paintings.
Vincent met and befriended the artist Paul Gauguin during this same period, and Gauguin's brilliantly hued paintings also exerted an influence of the Dutchman's art.
It was during this time of his life that Vincent van Gogh began developing an interest in Ukiyo-e, Japanese woodcut prints, which he and such contemporaries as Claude Monet and Edgar Degas began to collect, and which would inspire paintings reflecting the Japonaiserie influence on his artistic vision.
Van Gogh's 1887 interpretation of The Courtesan, a work by Keisai Eisen, features an infusion of brilliant colors that far outshine the original. He chose a background of a lily pond in place of Eisen's cherry blossoms.
Vincent van Gogh moved from Theo's Paris home to Arles in southern France in 1888, where he rented The Yellow House.
In spring, he painted the blossoming landscapes of Provence as well as seascapes in nearby Saintes-Marie-de-la-Mer.
As he was preparing a room in his Yellow House to accommodate Gauguin, who planned to visit Arles for an extended stay later in the year, Vincent van Gogh was also working on his second series of the Sunflowers paintings.
The artist's sunflower paintings featured various backgrounds and arrangements of the large, golden flowers, each one similar yet distinct.
Others appreciate the paintings for their unique blend of simplicity and richly evocative detail.
Subsequently, the artist entered care at the asylum at Saint-Remy-de-Provence, and although struggling with rapid mental deterioration, he produced a series of stylistically diverse paintings that depicted the hospital itself and well as the surrounding grounds, olive trees and cypresses.
Vincent van Gogh painted his brilliant 1889 work, Irises, in the garden at Saint-Remy during his stay.
The painting, which exhibits some characteristics of Japanese woodcuts as well as the artist's penchant for color and light, was part in the annual Societe des Artistes Independant exhibit in Paris, thanks to Theo's intervention, along with the Van Gogh painting, Starry Night Over the Rhone.
He also favored curved, undulating lines to indicate movement and energy, such as the fence line in the foreground of the painting and the treetops behind.
The career of Vincent van Gogh as a painter was short, but his paintings revolutionized artistic practice and styles.
On 27 July 1890, Vincent van Gogh was shot in the stomach, and passed away in the early morning of 29 July 1890 in his room at the Auberge Ravoux in the village of Auvers-sur-Oise in northern France.
Although official history maintains that Van Gogh committed suicide, the latest research reveals that Van Gogh's death might be caused by an accident.
