USA & Canada World USA & Canada Australia & New-Zealand India Southeast Asia Login forgot it?
remember me or Login with Facebook Login with Twitter Register No account yet?
Registering is free , easy , and private .
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
anywhere on the site in the encyclopedia in the forums News News chronological archives 02:58 Studio Ponoc's The Imaginary Film Opens in Winter 2023 02:31 Hayao Miyazaki's How Do You Live?
Film Opens in Japan on July 14, 2023 01:54 Final Fantasy VII Ever Crisis Game's New Trailer Streamed 01:36 Gudetama: An Eggcellent Adventure Series' Clip Shows Gudetama Running for Office 01:19 D4DJ Franchise Casts Kanon Nanaki as Ibuki Niijima 00:54 Ichiro Mizuki's Last Recorded Performance to Air on January 3 Dec 12 Naruto's Sakura Voice Actress Chie Nakamura Unable to Attend Jump Festa Event Dec 12 Makoto Shinkai's Suzume Becomes #16 All-Time Top Anime Film in Japan Dec 12 Live-Action Candy-Colored Paradox Series Reveals New Trailer, Streaming in 190 Countries Dec 12 The First Slam Dunk Anime Film Stays at #1 With Cumulative Total of 3.03 Billion Yen Convention reports chronological archives Nov 18 Anime NYC 2022 Oct 31 Happy Halloween from the Anime World!
Sep 25 Aniplex Festival Online 2022 Newsfeed Interest chronological archives Dec 12 Gunpla Builders World Cup 10th Tournament Finals Stream Live on December 17 Dec 12 My Hero Academia Collab Launches in Fortnite on December 16 Dec 9 Ken Akamatsu Says Japan's Controversial Invoice System Can't Be Stopped Dec 9 Castlevania DLC Comes to Dead Cells Indie Game in 2023 Dec 8 Crunchyroll Awards Changes Up Categories for 2023 Dec 7 Bullet Train Boy Band Inspires NFT Anime Videos Dec 7 NIJISANJI EN's 7th Virtual YouTuber Group "XSOLEIL" Debuts This Weekend Press Releases chronological archives Dec 12 Shueisha Welcomes International Fans to Experience 'Jump Festa 2023' Live Stream for the First Time in the Event's History Dec 12 Global Gameplay Trailer Debut - Modern-Day Supernatural Martial Arts Anime Hitori No Shita: The Outcast Game Announced Dec 12 Fist Meets Fate in Tekken 8 Gameplay Reveal, as a Legend Returns and the Longest Blood-Feud in Video Game History Enters a New Generation Dec 12 Say Hello to Anko Asakura: Riot Music Welcomes New Virtual Singer to Their Blitz Wing Sub-Label Dec 11 Demon Slayer: Kimetsu No Yaiba -To the Swordsmith Village- World Tour Announces L.A.
Premiere Event on February 18 and North America Theatrical Release Dec 9 MyDearest Introduces VR Communicator Project For Social Spaces Views Features chronological archives Dec 12 Interview: STEREO DIVE FOUNDATION Dec 9 Interview: Mob Psycho 100 Lead Voice Actor Setsuo Ito Dec 7 Interview: Gungrave G.O.R.E.
General Director Kay kim Dec 6 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Fall 2022, Nov 26-Dec 2 Dec 5 Production I.G and Studio Wit President George Wada Dec 3 See Ghibli Park's Grand Opening Dec 2 Interview: Denji, Aki, Power, and Makima Dub Actors Discuss Smash-Hit Anime Chainsaw Man Nov 30 Attack on Titan Creator Hajime Isayama at Anime NYC Reviews alphabetical archives Dec 12 Blitz Volume 1 Dec 11 New York, New York Omnibus 2 Dec 10 Romancing SaGa -Minstrel Song- Remastered Dec 9 Matcha Made in Heaven GN 1 Dec 8 Rainbow Days GN 1 Dec 7 The Apothecary Diaries GN 5 & 6 Dec 6 Hi, I'm a Witch, and My Crush Wants Me to Make a Love Potion GN 1 Dec 5 Hikaru in the Light!
GN 2-4 Columns chronological archives Dec 9 Answerman - What is the Villainess Isekai Trend Actually Parodying?
Dec 8 This Week in Anime - Stone Ocean Closes the Joestar Saga...For Now Dec 7 The ANN Aftershow - Makima's Terrifying Power is Revealed Dec 2 This Week in Games - Chris Pratt Meets The Banana Slamma Everything chronological archives Features (incl.
Interviews and Seasonal features like Anime Spotlight , Preview Guide , Weekly Rankings ) Reviews (incl.
Game Reviews ) Columns (incl.
The ANN Aftershow , Anime News Nina!
, ANNtv , ANNCast , Answerman , Astro Toy , Intern Annika , Brain Diving , Buried Treasure , Chicks On Anime , Crashing Japan , The Dub Track , The Edit List , Epic Threads , From The Gallery , Hai Fidelity , House of 1000 Manga , Ima Kore Ga Hoshiin Da , Old School , Pile of Shame , RIGHT TURN ONLY!!
, Shelf Life , Sound Decision , Sub Culture , Super Plastic , Tales Of The Industry , Tankobon Tower , The Click , The Gallery , The List , The Mike Toole Show , The Set List , The Stream , The X Button , This Week in Anime , This Week in Games , Vice & Luna ) Editorials (incl.
Industry Comments ) Advertorials New Anime Your Score: Rate the Latest Simulcasts Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings: The Best and Worst of the Season So Far According to Readers Anime Spotlight previous seasons Fall 2022 Preview Guide Akiba Maid War -Heavy Metal, Dark Fantasy- Part 2 Beast Tamer Berserk: The Golden Age Arc - Memorial Edition Bibliophile Princess Bleach: Thousand-Year Blood War Blue Lock Bocchi the Rock!
Chainsaw Man Do It Yourself!!
The Eminence in Shadow Encouragement of Climb: Next Summit Exception Golden Kamuy Season 4 Housing Complex C The Human Crazy University I'm the Villainess, So I'm Taming the Final Boss I've Somehow Gotten Stronger When I Improved My Farm-Related Skills IDOLiSH7 Third Beat!
Part 2 Legend of Mana: The Teardrop Crystal Legend of the Galactic Heroes: Die Neue These - Intrigue The Little Lies We All Tell Love Flops Management of Novice Alchemist Mob Psycho 100 III Mobile Suit Gundam: The Witch From Mercury More Than a Married Couple, But Not Lovers Muv-Luv Alternative Season 2 My Hero Academia Season 6 My Master Has No Tail Peter Grill and the Philosopher's Time Super Extra Pop Team Epic Season 2 Raven of the Inner Palace Reincarnated as a Sword Shinobi no Ittoki Part 2 Tiger & Bunny Season 2 Part 2 Urusei Yatsura Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!
Season 2 VazzRock the Animation Welcome to Demon School, Iruma-kun Season 3 Yowamushi Pedal Limit Break previous seasons Daily Streaming Reviews Akiba Maid War #10 Bibliophile Princess #8-9 Bleach: Thousand-Year Blood War #10 BLUELOCK #10 Bocchi the Rock!
#10 Chainsaw Man #9 Delicious Party Precure #39 Do It Yourself!!
#9-10 Golden Kamuy Season 4 #42 I'm the Villainess, So I'm Taming the Final Boss #12 Legend of the Galactic Heroes: Die Neue These - Intrigue #47 Mob Psycho 100 III #10 Mobile Suit Gundam: The Witch From Mercury #10 More Than a Married Couple, But Not Lovers #10 My Hero Academia Season 6 #124 One Piece #1044 Pop Team Epic Season 2 #10 Raven of the Inner Palace #11 Reincarnated as a Sword #10 Shinobi no Ittoki #10 #23 The Eminence in Shadow #10 To Your Eternity Season 2 #7 Urusei Yatsura #9 Uzaki-chan Wants to Hang Out!
Season 2 #11 Welcome to Demon School, Iruma-kun Season 3 #10 Encyclopedia Anime Top 10 Latest Simulcasts Licensed Latest in Japan Upcoming TV series , movies , OAVs Manga Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan People Most prolific cast Most prolific staff Releases This month Companies Licensors Lexicon Tools Search by genre, theme, year Comparison tool Personal settings more Forum Forum Categories Site-Related General Industry For Subscribers Forums Talkback Anime > Series Discussion Manga Encyclopedia Feedback Retail Community Forum Information Search FAQ Usergroups My ANN Public Public Anime Lists Surveys Contests & Giveaways Newsletter ANN:Connect Subscribers Subscriber Forum Subscribe Personal My Anime My Manga Change skin My Anime 2 (beta) About Our Team Contact us Site news Staff openings Privacy policy Copyright policy Other policies Advertise with ANN Help FAQ Report a Problem Bugs & Technical Questions Forum Login or Register forgot it?
remember me Login with Facebook Login with Twitter No account yet?
Registering is free , easy , and private .
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
You must be at least 13 years old.
remind me tomorrow remind me next week never remind me Subscribe to the ANN Newsletter Wake up every Sunday to a curated list of ANN's most interesting posts of the week.
read more News Hayao Miyazaki's How Do You Live?
Film Opens in Japan on July 14, 2023 posted on 2022-12-13 02:31 EST by Crystalyn Hodgkins google_ad_section_start INFOLINKS_ON New poster visual also revealed The official Twitter account for Studio Ghibli announced on Tuesday that Hayao Miyazaki 's latest feature film, Kimi-tachi wa Ikiru ka , will open in theaters in Japan on July 14, 2023.
The film is tentatively titled How Do You Live?
in English.
Studio Ghibli also revealed a visual for the film.
Miyazaki is credited with the original work, in addition to directing the film and writing the script.
Studio Ghibli will reveal other staff members, cast members, and the story for the film at a later date.
Miyazaki derived the film from Yoshino 's 1937 novel How Do You Live?
.
He added that this book is a story that has great meaning to the protagonist of his film.
Algonquin Young Readers released the book in English in October 2021, and it describes the novel: HOW DO YOU LIVE?
begins with fifteen-year-old Copper, who has recently suffered the loss of his father, gazing out over his hometown of Tokyo, watching the thousands of people below, and beginning to ponder life's big questions.
How many people are in the world?
What do their lives look like?
Are humans really made of molecules?
The book moves between Copper's story and his uncle's journal entries, in which he gives advice and helps Copper learn pivotal truths about the way the world works.
Over the course of a year in his life, Copper, like his namesake Copernicus, embarks on a journey of philosophical enlightenment, and uses his discoveries about the heavens, earth and human nature to determine the best way to live.
Yoshino perfectly captures the beauty and strangeness of pre-war Japan the changing of the seasons, the fried tofu and taiyaki stands, and the lush landscapes, as Copper explores the city on his bike and learns from friends and family what really matters most in life.
Studio Ghibli producer Toshio Suzuki stated in an interview in March 2021 that the animation for the film was half-finished, and added he did not expect the film to release for another three years.
Suzuki had stated in an interview in December 2020 that the film will be 125 minutes long.
Miyazaki officially revealed the film in 2017.
Suzuki reported in April 2017 that Miyazaki had been drawing the storyboards for the project since July 2016.
Miyazaki's last film, 2013's The Wind Rises , also derived its title as a homage to a literary work, Tatsuo Hori 's novel The Wind Has Risen ( Kaze Tachinu ) which is itself an apparent homage to a line in Paul poem "Le Marin."
Miyazaki had declared in 2013 that he would "retire from the production of feature-length films," but he then came out of retirement to make How Do You Live?
.
Sources: Studio Ghibli 's North American Twitter account and Japanese Twitter account , Eiga Natalie INFOLINKS_OFF source: ... discuss this in the forum | bookmark/share with: this article has been modified since it was originally posted; see change history News homepage / archives google_ad_section_end RightStuf - Anime, Manga and More - + news 25 comments Singer Ichiro Mizuki Passes Away at 74 Dec 12, 18:17 25 comments people "Emperor of Anime Songs" revealed lung cancer diagnosis in July The website for singer Ichiro Mizuki revealed on Monday that he passed away on December 6 due to lung cancer.
He was 74.
Mizuki revealed in July that he had been diagnosed with lung cancer with lymph node and brain metastasis, following his partial paralysis of the vocal cords in April 2021.
Furthermore, a new lung cancer was found ear... news 12 comments Demon Slayer Anime's Swordsmith Village Arc Premieres in April With 1-Hour TV Special (Updated) Dec 12, 18:17 12 comments anime 1st episode to play in theaters in over 80 countries starting on February 3 The special broadcast of Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba - The Movie: Mugen Train ended on Saturday with an announcement that the franchise's upcoming Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Swordsmith Village Arc (Kimetsu no Yaiba: Katanakaji no Sato-Hen) television anime will premiere in April with a one-hour special.
In addition, ... news 11 comments Oshi no Ko Anime Reveals Teaser, Cast, April 2023 TV Debut Dec 12, 18:16 11 comments anime 90-minute expanded version of episode 1 to play in theaters in Japan on March 17 A live-streamed event for the television anime of Aka Akasaka and Mengo Yokoyari's Oshi no Ko manga revealed on Sunday the anime's teaser trailer, additional characters and their cast members, and April 2023 debut: An extended 90-minute version of the first episode will play in advanced screenings at cinemas nationwide... news 8 comments Kono Manga ga Sugoi!
Editors Unveil 2023 Rankings Dec 12, 18:04 8 comments manga The Summer Hikaru Died tops male reader list; Tenmaku no tops female reader list The 2023 edition of Takarajimasha's Kono Manga ga Sugoi!
(This Manga Is Amazing!)
guidebook announced on Monday its lists of the top manga series.
The top 10 on its list of manga for male readers are: 1.
The Summer Hikaru Died by Mokumokuren 2.
Goodbye, Eri by Tatsuki Fujimoto 3.
Takopi's Original Sin by Taizan... news 5 comments Final Fantasy XVI Game Reveals Japanese, English Cast Dec 12, 18:03 5 comments games Game launches for PS5 on June 22, 2023 Square Enix revealed the Japanese and English cast for its Final Fantasy XVI role-playing game on Friday.
The Japanese cast includes: Yuma Uchida as Clive Rosfield (child) Uchida as Clive Rosfield (adult) Natsumi Fujiwara as Joshua Rosfield Megumi Han as Jill Warwick Hiroshi Shirokuma as Cidolfus Telamon Yasuhiro Mamiya as Hugo Kupka Akari Higuchi as Bene... review 1 comment Blitz Volume 1 Dec 12, 12:00 1 comment manga Blitz appears to be a sports manga with a focus on chess, but it fails to sell game newbies to the strategy behind the game.
Blitz is an interesting manga.
It is very much in the vein of a typical sports manga, particularly school-based sports manga.
You've got a young competitor entering a brand-new world where he must learn the rules of the game and face ever tougher challengers as he grows in sk... interview Interview: STEREO DIVE FOUNDATION Dec 12, 09:00 music Seasoned musician R.O.N discusses his music writing approach and how an international background helped diversify his compositions.
I first came across the artist Stereo Dive Foundation through their performance of the ending song for the Kyoto Animation anime Beyond the Boundary.
I had no idea at the time that this would become one of the first songs written by a seasoned solo artist perf... review 1 comment New York, New York Omnibus 2 Dec 11, 12:00 1 comment manga While New York, New York is marked by the time it was written, it is ultimately a fulfilling work of fiction about two married men in a time that wasn't ready for them.
For modern readers of BL, Marimo Ragawa's New York, New York may feel very different from what they are used to.
Rather than taking an idealized view of gay male relationships, the series, which dates to the mid-1990s, instead attem... game review 10 comments Romancing SaGa -Minstrel Song- Remastered Dec 10, 12:00 10 comments games With such an old installment being given new life in this modern age, is there something modern players can enjoy in this blast from the past?
The SaGa series is considered a beloved classic franchise amongst many RPG circles.
They've had mechanics that have been directly inspired by and have led on to inspire other popular RPG franchises.
Romancing SaGa -Minstrel Song- Remastered is a remaster of ... review 7 comments Matcha Made in Heaven GN 1 Dec 9, 12:00 7 comments manga Fleeing an abusive Chako returns to her rural roots and, through a matter of survival, might have found a real romance.
All of us reach our breaking point eventually.
For Chako, it's one big thing that pushes her towards it, and more of the realization that her life in the place she's moved to isn't quite what she's looking for.
In her case, that would be the big city of Tokyo, where she mo... interview Interview: Mob Psycho 100 Lead Voice Actor Setsuo Ito Dec 9, 09:00 anime "My work takes place before the broadcast, so I can't see the live reaction as I'm performing, but there are many times when I think, 'This will blow everyone's mind!'"
Voice actor Setsuo Ito has done a stunning job bringing the character of Mob to life in the Mob Psycho 100 anime.
We asked him about his journey as a voice actor, what he's looking forward to in season 3, and his thoughts on a certa... column 19 comments Answerman - What is the Villainess Isekai Trend Actually Parodying?
Dec 9, 09:00 19 comments anime You've noticed the trend of "girl gets reincarnated into an otome game as the villainess," but thinking back on it, does this type of character even exist in most otome games?
RW asked: Lately, there's a huge trend across multiple forms of media (manga, web novels, light novels, etc.)
of stories of people getting reincarnated into a villainess character from some book/game/etc.
they had read/playe... All material Copyright 1998-2022 Anime News Network.
All rights reserved.
served by kurisu-chan Report a Problem News Convention reports Newsfeed Interest Press Releases Views Features Reviews Columns New Anime Your Score for Recent Simulcasts Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings Fall 2022 Preview Guide Daily Streaming Reviews Encyclopedia Forum My ANN Subscribe My Anime My Manga Newsletter ANN:Connect About Our Team Contact us Staff openings Privacy policy Copyright policy Advertise with ANN FAQ Report a Problem Bugs & Technical Questions Forum foot Infolinks disabled
