USA & Canada USA & Canada UK & Ireland Australia & New-Zealand Southeast Asia anywhere on the site in the encyclopedia in the forums News News chronological archives 10:15 Boruto: Naruto Next Generations Anime Features Original Story 09:00 Accel World vs.
Sword Art Online PS4/PS Vita Game Heads West 07:30 Love Kome: We Love Rice Original TV Anime Reveals More Cast, Staff 05:10 Mazinger Z Anime Gets Film Adaptation For 45th Anniversary 05:00 Funimation Reveals English Dub Cast For ACCA Anime 04:30 Hajimete no Gal Anime Gets 'Big Announcement' Next Month 03:45 Shonen Jump Magazine to Launch 6 New Series By Kuroko's Basketball, Beelzebub , More Authors 03:00 Aikatsu Stars Anime Enters 2nd Season With 'Hoshi no Tsubasa' in April 02:30 Weekly Young Jump Teases New Anime With Countdown 01:30 ReLIFE Live-Action Film's 2 New Trailers Feature Sonoko Inoue Insert Song Convention reports chronological archives Sep 23 Photos from Kyoto International Manga Anime Fair 2016 Aug 18 Photos from Otakon 2016 Aug 16 Comiket 90 Cosplay Gallery Newsfeed Interest chronological archives 02:00 Server Rental Company Sakura Internet Produces 4-Episode Net Anime Series 00:45 White Fox Animates Commercials for Sakura Internet's 20th Anniversary Jan 25 Watch Actor Junji Inagawa Freak Out While Playing Resident Evil 7 Jan 25 Olympic Female Wrestler Challenges Viewers to a Battle Jan 25 Sailor Moon Marks 25th Anniversary With Monster Hunter , Sanrio, More Crossovers Jan 25 Bootleg Pikachu Toys Creep Out Twitter Users Jan 24 California Gets Official Hakuoki Festival, Cafe in April Press Releases chronological archives Jan 24 Crunchyroll Announces Winter 2017 Anime Lineup Jan 23 The Emerald City Welcomes Duelists From All Over the Pacific Northwest & Beyond to Konami's Yu-Gi-Oh!
Championship Series Seattle February 18-19 Jan 23 SaikouCon Returns to the Lehigh Valley in 2017 Jan 22 MIREI & DDR Rocked SacAnime Winter 2017 Jan 22 Story of Seasons: Trio of Towns Sprouting Early This Spring on Nintendo 3DS Jan 22 Koei Tecmo America Reveals 'Awakening' Abilities in Berserk and the Band of the Hawk Views Features chronological archives Jan 25 Is Dragon Ball Super Super Enough?
Jan 20 How Mari Okada Writes Mobile Suit Gundam Jan 18 The Secret of Studio SHAFT Jan 17 Tales of Berseria's Yasuhiro Fukaya Jan 13 The Death and Rebirth of Rakugo Jan 11 The Beginner's Guide to Blue Exorcist Jan 4 The Winter 2017 Anime Preview Guide Jan 4 Our Most Anticipated Anime of Winter 2017 Reviews alphabetical archives 10:00 The Vision Of Escaflowne BD+DVD Jan 25 Ange Vierge Episodes 1-12 Streaming Jan 24 Charlotte Blu-Ray 2 Jan 23 Qualidea Code Episodes 1-12 Streaming Jan 22 Big Order GN 1 Jan 21 Aoharu x Machinegun GNs 1-2 Jan 20 Chain Chronicle: The Light of Haecceitas Jan 19 Sailor Moon R The Movie Columns chronological archives Jan 23 Answerman - Why Are Motion-Smoothing Televisions So Terrible For Anime?
Jan 23 Shelf Life - Shimoneta Jan 22 The Mike Toole Show - Binge Benefits Jan 21 The List - 7 Things You Probably Didn't Know About Sailor Moon Jan 20 ANNCast - It's High Noon Jan 19 This Week in Games - The Switch Is Upon Us!
Everything chronological archives Features (incl.
Interviews , Anime Spotlight , Preview Guide ) Reviews (incl.
Game Reviews ) Columns (incl.
Anime News Nina!
, ANNtv , ANNCast , Answerman , Astro Toy , Brain Diving , Buried Treasure , Chicks On Anime , Crashing Japan , The Dub Track , The Edit List , Epic Threads , From The Gallery , Hai Fidelity , House of 1000 Manga , Ima Kore Ga Hoshiin Da , Old School , Pile of Shame , RIGHT TURN ONLY!!
, Shelf Life , Sound Decision , Sub Culture , Super Plastic , Tales Of The Industry , Tankobon Tower , The Click , The Gallery , The List , The Mike Toole Show , The Set List , The Stream , The X Button , Vice & Luna ) Editorials (incl.
Industry Comments ) New Anime Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-Ray Winter 2017 Anime Spotlight Scum's Wish (Kuzu no Honkai) SEIREN Super Lovers 2 Urara Maze Town Book KONOSUBA - God's blessing on this wonderful world!
2 ACCA: 13-Territory Inspection Dept.
Chaos; Child Gabriel Dropout Saga of Tanya the Evil Descending Stories: Showa Genroku Rakugo Shinju The Dragon Dentist Hand Shakers previous seasons Winter 2017 Preview Guide Akiba's Trip Masamune-kun's Revenge Saga of Tanya the Evil Fuuka Minami Kamakura High School Girls Cycling Club School Girl Strikers Descending Stories: Showa Genroku Rakugo Shinju Blue Exorcist: Kyoto Saga Seiren Spiritpact Urara Meirocho Interviews with Monster Girls Idol Incidents Tales of Zestiria the X season 2 Gabriel DropOut Yowamushi Pedal New Generation ACCA: 13-Territory Inspection Dept.
Hand Shakers Kemono Friends Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid KONOSUBA -God's blessing on this wonderful world!
2 Scum's Wish MARGINAL #4 the Animation ONIHEI CHAOS;CHILD SUPER LOVERS 2 Winter 2017 Shorts Rewrite season 2 BanG Dream!
previous seasons Daily Streaming Reviews ACCA: 13-Territory Inspection Dept.
#3 Akiba'S Trip The Animation #4 All Out!!
#15 Bakemonogatari #1 Blue Exorcist: Kyoto Saga #1-3 CHAOS;CHILD #0-2 ClassicaLoid #15 Descending Stories: Genroku Rakugo #3 Dragon Ball Super #75 Fuuka #1-4 Gabriel DropOut #3 Gintama #319 Hand Shakers #3 Interviews with Monster Girls #1-3 KONOSUBA - God's blessing on this wonderful world!
2 #3 March comes in like a lion #14 Masamune-kun's Revenge #1-3 Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid #3 Mobile Suit Gundam: Iron-Blooded Orphans #40 Nanbaka #17 Naruto Shippuden #490 One Piece #773 ONIHEI #3 Saga of Tanya the Evil #1-3 Scum's Wish #1-2 Seiren #1-3 Tales of Zestiria the X #15 Trickster #14 Twin Star Exorcists #41 Yowamushi Pedal New Generation #3 Encyclopedia Anime Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan Upcoming TV series , movies , OAVs Manga Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan People Most prolific cast Most prolific staff Releases This month Companies Licensors Lexicon Tools Search by genre, theme, year Comparison tool Personal settings more Video Anime Naruto Shippuden (s, uncut) - 454 - Itachi's Story - Light and Darkness: Shisui's Request One Piece (s) - 704 - (Sub) The Time Is Ticking Down!
Seize the Op-Op Fruit!
Wagnaria!!
(s) - 13 - Date, the Final Showdown.
Takanashi and Inami Ever After... Naruto (d) - 169 - (Dub) Remembrance: The Lost Page Moribito: Guardian of the Spirit (d) - 26 - (Dub) Beginning a Journey Hellsing Ultimate (s) - 10 - (Sub) Hellsing X Fairy Tail (d) - 36 - (Dub) Heaven's Game Voltron: Defender of the Universe (d) - 72 - Breaking up Is Hard to Doom Tenchi Muyo GXP (d) - 26 - (Dub) Final Engagement Trigun: Badlands Rumble (d) - (Dub) Trigun: Badlands Rumble Trailers Miss Hokusai: Exclusive English-Subtitled Trailer Patema Inverted Giovanni's Islanf Beyond the Boundary My Mental Choices Are Completely Interfering With My School Romantic Comedy I couldn't become a hero, so I reluctantly decided to get a job.
Samurai Flamenco Outbreak Company Yowamushi Pedal Unbreakable Machine-Doll Forum Forum Categories Site-Related General Industry For Subscribers Forums Talkback Anime > Series Discussion Manga Encyclopedia Feedback Retail Community Forum Information Search FAQ Usergroups My ANN Public Public Anime Lists Surveys Contests & Giveaways Subscribers Subscriber Forum Subscribe Personal My Anime My Manga Change skin My Anime 2 (beta) About Our Team Contact us Staff openings Privacy policy Copyright policy Advertise with ANN Help FAQ Bugs & Technical Questions Forum <li><a href="http://todo.animenewsnetwork.com/workspace/show/ann-5">Bug tracker</a> <a href="http://todo.animenewsnetwork.com/workspace/ann-5/issues/new">Report a bug</a> </li> Login or Register forgot it?
remember me Login with Facebook Login with Twitter No account yet?
Registering is free , easy , and private .
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
News Ponyo, DMC Won Japan Academy Awards on Friday posted on 2009-02-23 00:11 EST google_ad_section_start INFOLINKS_ON Ponyo wins in animation, music; Kenichi Matsuyama receives award Hayao Miyazaki and Studio Ghibli 's Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea won two awards at the 32nd Japan Academy Prizes on Friday.
It won the Animation of the Year award over Kusuba and Shin-Ei Animation 's Doraemon: Nobita to Midori no Kyojin Den , Mamoru Oshii and Production I.G 's The Sky Crawlers , Yasuichiro Yamamoto and TMS Entertainment 's Detective Conan: Full Score of Fear , and Atsuji Shimizu and Toei Animation 's One Piece: Episode of Chopper + Fuyu ni Saku, Kiseki no Sakura .
The category was just created two years ago; The Girl Who Leapt Through Time and Tekkonkinkreet were the previous winners .
Before that, Studio Ghibli won the overall Picture of the Year Award for Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away .
Joe Hisaishi also won an award for his Ponyo soundtrack.
He had received two nominations for Outstanding Achievement in Music: one for the live-action Okuribito (Departures) film, and the other for Ponyo .
Yojiro Takita 's Okuribito almost swept the rest of the awards with a tally of 10, including the overall Picture of the Year Award.
Fan favorite actor Kenichi Matsuyama ( Death Note , NANA ) received an award of merit for his work in the manga-based Detroit Metal City rock comedy film (pictured at left).
Tetsuya Nakashima 's surreal live-action fantasy film Paco and the Magical Book garnered one win for Towako Kuwajima for Art Direction, while Christopher Nolan and Warner Brothers ' The Dark Knight film won the Outstanding Foreign Language Film honor.
The Nippon Academy-Sho Association, a Japanese group roughly comparable to America's Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences of Oscars fame, presents these awards every year.
Source: animeanime.jp Images 2008 Detroit Metal City Production Committee 2008 Nibariki, GNDHDDT INFOLINKS_OFF source: ... discuss this in the forum (3 posts) | bookmark/share with: this article has been modified since it was originally posted; see change history News homepage / archives google_ad_section_end Visit AniplexUSA.com RightStuf - Anime, Manga and More - + review 0 comments Review: The Vision Of Escaflowne BD+DVD Jan 26, 10:00 0 comments anime This fantasy classic celebrates its 20th anniversary by coming to Blu-ray for the first time, with a brand-new English dub!
Jacob Chapman explores just what makes this series so special.
It's been over 20 years since The Vision of Escaflowne first aired, and let's face it, there aren't many 20-year old anime series you can expect the average anime fan to sit through with ease, much less the average... feature 481 comments The Winter 2017 Anime Preview Guide: Simuldub Edition Jan 25, 13:17 481 comments anime The Winter 2017 Anime Preview Guide returns with fresh reviews of this season's simuldub premieres!
Available Now: Saga of Tanya the Evil Welcome to Anime News Network's Winter 2017 Preview Guide!
Here's how it goes: our team of critics write up their impressions instantly and they get posted as they go along.
Each critic will cover as many shows as they can handle, resulting in alternate takes o... feature 24 comments Is Dragon Ball Super Super Enough?
Jan 25, 11:44 24 comments anime Dragon Ball Super is finally on Toonami, the floodgates of opinion have opened and fans are split - is this the show fans have really been waiting for?
Sam Leach considers the angles.
It took about a year, but Dragon Ball Super finally has widespread accessibility for the North American public.
The subtitled Japanese release was the first wave, proving just how much staying power that the Dragon Ba... review 6 comments Ange Vierge Episodes 1-12 Streaming Jan 25, 10:00 6 comments anime Does this fanservice-filled trading card game adaptation have the chops to stand out in a market crowded with both those things already?
James Beckett finds out.
Trading card game adaptations have a surprisingly wide variety of styles, tones, and themes, given their relatively simple origins.
Some series choose to simply use the mythology of the game to forge their own unique story (Rage of Bahamut... review 23 comments Review: Kizumonogatari I: Tekketsu-hen Blu-Ray Jan 24, 18:51 23 comments anime The first film in the epic Monogatari trilogy has finally arrived on Blu-ray!
Nick Creamer breaks down all the goods on this deluxe release.
Six years ago, it was announced the light novel Kizumonogatari would be receiving an anime adaptation.
Following on the heels of the blockbuster success Bakemonogatari, Kizu acted as a prologue for that story, detailing the events that were briefly hinted at i... review 35 comments Charlotte Blu-Ray 2 Jan 24, 10:00 35 comments anime After a promising start, Charlotte's second half derails in multiple ways.
Nick Creamer takes a look at what went wrong.
Charlotte began as a fairly comprehensible and even sometimes engaging fantasy drama.
The central conceit allowed for plenty of unique episodic narratives, as Yu, Tomori, and their associates traveled around and saved those abusing their own psychic powers.
It wasn't a great show... column 46 comments Answerman - Why Are Motion-Smoothing Televisions So Terrible For Anime?
Jan 23, 13:00 46 comments industry Most new TVs have "motion smoothing" turned on by default, a video setting that makes anime look pretty terrible - but why?
Justin gets into it.
Jon asks: I recently upgraded my TV to a new OLED flatscreen from LG, and I couldn't understand why the anime I watched looked so blurry.
After a little research online, I found out there is a setting called "TruMotion" that was the culprit and when I tur... column 24 comments Shelf Life - Shimoneta Jan 23, 11:00 24 comments anime This week, James Beckett finds out if the infamously nasty SHIMONETA is a filthy good time or just plain filthy.
Plus, all this week's new releases!
I'm not sure how the anime world reached a point where I'm more excited about a pair of monster girl shows than just about any other new title this season, but here we are.
I'm calling Interviews With Monster Girls my early favorite just because I lik... review 11 comments Qualidea Code Episodes 1-12 Streaming Jan 23, 10:00 11 comments anime This collaborative light-novel-project-turned-anime begins with tons of ambition and ends with tons of problems.
James Beckett explains what went wrong.
Qualidea Code belongs to a particular class of anime, one that I've come to refer as An anime stew is any project that takes a bunch of ingredients we've seen dozens of times before, familiar themes and ideas and characters, then toss... column 51 comments The Mike Toole Show - Binge Benefits Jan 22, 14:15 51 comments anime Mike weighs the pros and cons of binge watching, the act of watching entire anime series (or huge chunks of episodes) all at once.
Is the binge good, or is the binge bad?
Every January, I visit Arisia, a science fiction convention here in Boston.
For me, it's a fun change of pace the convention is smaller and lower-key than the anime events I appear at, and while I'm on the speaking program, the ... review 8 comments Big Order GN 1 Jan 22, 13:03 8 comments manga Big Order's anime version may have been one of last year's biggest critical and popular bombs, but does the original manga fare any better?
Rebecca Silverman finds out.
Big Order is the third of Sakae Esuno's manga to be released in English, and readers may have noticed a trend: with each series, the story gets more complicated and bizarre as the storytelling gets looser.
The basic themes within Bi... All material Copyright 1998-2017 Anime News Network.
All rights reserved.
served by mayu-chan cloudflare ray# 327513a8d6a911b3-SJC foot
