USA & Canada World USA & Canada Australia & New-Zealand India Southeast Asia Login forgot it?
remember me or Login with Facebook Login with Twitter Register No account yet?
Registering is free , easy , and private .
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
anywhere on the site in the encyclopedia in the forums News News chronological archives 08:16 Official HiGE DANdism Vocalist Satoshi Fujihara Goes on Hiatus Due to Vocal Cord Polyp 07:45 Chika Anzai, Takuya Eguchi, Atsumi Tanezaki Win 17th Annual Awards 07:15 Japanese Animation TV Ranking, February 27-March 5 05:15 Japan's Video Game Rankings, February 27-March 5 02:04 Live-Action Insomniacs After School Film Reveals More Cast, June 23 Debut 01:15 Tekken 8 Game Trailer Highlights Character Paul Phoenix 00:15 Irregular at Magic High School Reloaded Memory Smartphone Game Ends Service on August 14 Mar 10 The Quintessential Quintuplets: Goto Pazu Story Game's 1st Promo Video Streamed Mar 10 Microsoft Xbox Confirms it Will Not Exhibit on Showfloor at E3 Mar 10 Bocchi The Rock!
Manga Tops 2 Million in Circulation After Reprints Convention reports chronological archives Nov 18 Anime NYC 2022 Oct 31 Happy Halloween from the Anime World!
Sep 25 Aniplex Festival Online 2022 Newsfeed Interest chronological archives 10:45 Ninjala Reveals Details on Upcoming Attack on Titan Crossover Mar 10 Spanish Soccer Athlete Iniesta Endorses Aoashi Manga Mar 9 Tweeting Allowed at Sasaki and Miyano Film Screening This Saturday Mar 9 Gundam: Witch From Mercury Website Briefly Lists Spoiler Summary For Anime's Season 2 Mar 8 One-Punch Man Cosmetics Launch in Overwatch 2 Mar 7 Evangelion , Shin Kamen Rider Izakaya Opens in Tokyo on Friday Mar 6 Hatsune Miku Crocs Are Coming Press Releases chronological archives Mar 10 Unmatched in Heaven and Earth: UDON Entertainment Proudly Releases Gurren Lagann Archcives This Summer Mar 10 Meet My Hero Academia's Christopher Sabat, Studio Ghibli's Hirokatsu Kihara and More at MEGACON Orlando Mar 10 New Hero Issun Boshi Added to 'The Battle Cats' Mar 10 Fanhome Launches Transformers Optimus Prime Build-Up Subscription for North America Mar 10 Doraemon Story of Seasons: Friends of the Great Kingdom's DLC Pack #3 with is Now Available Mar 10 Edda to Sing ED Theme of The Ancient Magus' Bride Season 2 Views Features chronological archives Mar 10 The Double Writer's Guide to Kamen Rider Mar 8 Hands-on With VR Mar 7 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Winter 2023, Feb 26-Mar 4 Mar 6 Inside Bandai Namco's First Akihabara Arcade Mar 3 The Many Adaptations of Death Note Mar 1 Tonari Animation's CEO on Which Innovations Will Help the Anime Industry Feb 28 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Winter 2023, Feb 19-25 Feb 27 Fan Meetup Celebrates Digimon's 25th Anniversary Reviews alphabetical archives 12:00 Doomsday With My Dog GN 1 Mar 10 Blue Thermal Mar 9 Blue Box GN 3 Mar 8 PARANORMASIGHT: The Seven Mysteries of Honjo Mar 8 FATAL FRAME: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse Mar 7 Immoral Guild Mar 6 Aim for the Ace Blu-ray Mar 5 Aggretsuko Season 5 Columns chronological archives Mar 10 This Week in Games - Welcome To The Next Saiyan Level Mar 9 This Week in Anime - And the Award for Best Anime Awards Goes To... Mar 3 Answerman - What Kind of Content Restrictions Does Shonen Jump Impose?
Mar 1 The ANN Aftershow - More Like "Hash the Stampede," Amirite?
Everything chronological archives Features (incl.
Interviews and Seasonal features like Anime Spotlight , Preview Guide , Weekly Rankings ) Reviews (incl.
Game Reviews ) Columns (incl.
The ANN Aftershow , Anime News Nina!
, ANNtv , ANNCast , Answerman , Astro Toy , Intern Annika , Brain Diving , Buried Treasure , Chicks On Anime , Crashing Japan , The Dub Track , The Edit List , Epic Threads , From The Gallery , Hai Fidelity , House of 1000 Manga , Ima Kore Ga Hoshiin Da , Old School , Pile of Shame , RIGHT TURN ONLY!!
, Shelf Life , Sound Decision , Sub Culture , Super Plastic , Tales Of The Industry , Tankobon Tower , The Click , The Gallery , The List , The Mike Toole Show , The Set List , The Stream , The X Button , This Week in Anime , This Week in Games , Vice & Luna ) Editorials (incl.
Industry Comments ) Advertorials New Anime Your Score: Rate the Latest Simulcasts Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings: The Best and Worst of the Season So Far According to Readers Anime Spotlight previous seasons Winter 2023 Preview Guide "Ippon" Again!
The Angel Next Door Spoils Me Rotten Ayakashi Triangle BOFURI: I Don't Want to Get Hurt, so I'll Max Out My Defense.
Season 2 Buddy Daddies Bungo Stray Dogs Season 4 By the Grace of the Gods Season 2 Campfire Cooking in Another World with My Absurd Skill Chillin' in My 30s after Getting Fired from the Demon King's Army D4DJ All Mix Don't Toy with Me, Miss Nagatoro 2nd Attack Endo and Kobayashi Live!
The Latest on Tsundere Villainess Lieselotte Farming Life in Another World The Fire Hunter The Fruit of Evolution 2: Before I Knew It, My Life Had It Made Season 2 Giant Beasts of Ars Handyman in Another World High Card The Ice Guy and His Cool Female Colleague The Iceblade Sorcerer Shall Rule the World In/Spectre Season 2 Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?
IV Part 2 Kaina of the Great Snow Sea Kubo Won't Let Me Be Invisible The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel - Northern War The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess Malevolent Spirits: Mononogatari The Misfit of Demon King Academy II NieR:Automata Ver 1.1a Ningen Fushin: Adventurers Who Don't Believe in Humanity Will Save the World ONIMAI: I'm Now Your Sister!
Reborn to Master the Blade: From Hero-King to Extraordinary Squire The Reincarnation of the Strongest Exorcist In Another World Revenger Saving 80,000 Gold in Another World for My Retirement Spy Classroom Sugar Apple Fairy Tale The Tale of Outcasts Technoroid Overmind Tokyo Revengers: Christmas Showdown Tomo-chan Is a Girl!
Trigun Stampede Tsurune: The Linking Shot UniteUp!
The Vampire Dies in No Time Season 2 Vinland Saga Season 2 previous seasons Daily Streaming Reviews "Ippon" Again!
#9 Attack on Titan Final Season THE FINAL CHAPTERS #1 BLUELOCK #21 BOFURI: I Don't Want to Get Hurt, so I'll Max Out My Defense.
Season 2 #7 Buddy Daddies #7-8 Bungo Stray Dogs Season 4 #47 Campfire Cooking in Another World with My Absurd Skill #9 Endo and Kobayashi Live!
The Latest on Tsundere Villainess Lieselotte #10 Giant Beasts of Ars #9 Handyman in Another World #9 High Card #9 In/Spectre Season 2 #21 Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?
IV #21 Kaina of the Great Snow Sea #9 My Hero Academia Season 6 #135 NieR:Automata Ver 1.1a #6 One Piece #1053 ONIMAI: I'm Now Your Sister!
#10 Revenger #9 Spy Classroom #8 Sugar Apple Fairy Tale #10 The Fire Hunter #6-7 The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess #10 Tokyo Revengers: Christmas Showdown #9 Tomo-chan Is a Girl!
#10 Trigun Stampede #9 Tsurune: The Linking Shot #10 Vinland Saga Season 2 #9 Welcome to Demon School, Iruma-kun Season 3 #21 Encyclopedia Anime Top 10 Latest Simulcasts Licensed Latest in Japan Upcoming TV series , movies , OAVs Manga Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan People Most prolific cast Most prolific staff Releases This month Companies Licensors Lexicon Tools Search by genre, theme, year Comparison tool Personal settings more Forum Forum Categories Site-Related General Industry For Subscribers Forums Talkback Anime > Series Discussion Manga Encyclopedia Feedback Retail Community Forum Information Search FAQ Usergroups My ANN Public Public Anime Lists Surveys Contests & Giveaways Newsletter ANN:Connect Subscribers Subscriber Forum Subscribe Personal My Anime My Manga Change skin My Anime 2 (beta) About Our Team Contact us Site news Staff openings Privacy policy Copyright policy Other policies Advertise with ANN Help FAQ Report a Problem Bugs & Technical Questions Forum Login or Register forgot it?
remember me Login with Facebook Login with Twitter No account yet?
Registering is free , easy , and private .
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
You must be at least 13 years old.
remind me tomorrow remind me next week never remind me Subscribe to the ANN Newsletter Wake up every Sunday to a curated list of ANN's most interesting posts of the week.
read more Interest Toy Story 3 Art Director Married to Hayao Miyazaki's Niece posted on 2011-10-18 00:00 EDT by Egan Loo google_ad_section_start INFOLINKS_ON Niece inspired Mei in Totoro , & met Dice Tsutsumi again due to Totoro charity In an interview posted on Friday for his Sketchtravel art book project, Toy Story 3 art director Daisuke "Dice" Tsutsumi revealed that his wife is Studio Ghibli co-founder Hayao Miyazaki 's niece and she happened to be the inspiration for the character Mei in Miyazaki's My Neighbor Totoro film.
Moreover, Tsutsumi and his wife met each other again and got married in part thanks to Tsutsumi's charity efforts for " Totoro 's Forest," a pet cause for Miyazaki.
The Totoro Forest Project was an effort, co-sponsored by Pixar, to save one of the forests that inspired My Neighbor Totoro .
Tsutsumi and French illustrator Gerald Guerlais launched the Sketchtravel art book project to benefit the international literacy non-profit organization Room to Read.
71 illustrators, animators, and comic book artists from around the world contributed artwork to the book.
After explaining why he and Guerlais devoted the final page in the book to Miyazaki's contribution, Tsutsumi added the following: Tsutumi: And, one more thing Interviewer Shigesato Itoi : Go on.
Tsutsumi: My wife is "Mei."
Itoi: She is?
Tsutsumi: Well, my wife is director Hayao Miyazaki 's niece, and she was the model for [the character] Mei-chan in My Neighbor Totoro .
Itoi: Huh, was that a coincidence?
Tsutsumi: She and I went to grade school together.
Of course, I knew that she was director Hayao Miyazaki 's niece back then, but we fell out of touch for 18 years when I was 15 years old.
Itoi: I see.
And then?
Tsutsumi: I graduated high school and entered the animation industry, but I was already a huge fan of director Miyazaki.
But I had already fallen out of touch with his niece Mei-chan by then.
Itoi: Uh-huh.
Tsutsumi: So I actually wasn't that close to Miyazaki thanks to me knowing Mei-chan I mean, my wife.
Tsutsumi then explained how he and his wife-to-be reconnected: Itoi: How come you got married?
Tsutsumi: When I was in first grade, she was my first love.
Itoi: Mei-chan was?
Tsutsumi: So, when I'm asked who my first love was, I say, "Mei, as in "Satsuki and Mei" [from My Neighbor Totoro ]."
Tsutsumi: As I mentioned before, I wanted to do an auction for the Totoro Forest Project, so I returned to Japan in 2007 to receive permission from Studio Ghibli .
Itoi: So this was recent.
Tsutsumi: I only met director Miyazaki once before then.
Itoi: I see.
Tsutsumi: When I met him before, I wanted to say "I...Your niece Mei-chan was my first love," but I was nervous and I couldn't say anything.
Itoi: I can sympathize with that.
Tsutsumi: I regretted that for a few years afterwards, but in 2007, when I got to meet him a second time, I confessed, "Director, I actually was a childhood friend of Mei-chan, and she was my first love."
He was completely surprised.
During this 2007 trip for the Totoro Forest Project charity his first trip back to Japan in a long while Tsutsumi went out to eat with some old childhood friends, and one of them got in touch with Tsutsumi's first love.
Eventually, after 18 years, the two had a reunion.
One thing led to another, and the two married in October of 2009, with Miyazaki in attendance.
Toy Story 3 happens to include an extended cameo of a plush Totoro .
Plus, Tsutsumi's interviewer, Shigesato Itoi , played Satsuki and Mei's father in My Neighbor Totoro .
Source: Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun via tsk06 INFOLINKS_OFF source: ... discuss this in the forum (16 posts) | bookmark/share with: Interest homepage / archives google_ad_section_end RightStuf - Anime, Manga and More - + news 13 comments My Hero Academia Manga Takes 2-Week Break Due to Author's Health Mar 11, 18:47 13 comments manga Manga previously took breaks in February, December due to author's health The official Twitter account for Kohei Horikoshi's My Hero Academia manga announced on Friday that the manga is taking a two-week break due to Horikoshi's poor health.
The manga will not appear in the 15th issue of Weekly Shonen Jump on Monday and the 16th issue on March 20.
The manga will return in the 17th issue on March 27... review 3 comments Doomsday With My Dog GN 1 Mar 11, 12:00 3 comments manga This is a joyously bizarre story of a high school girl and her dog roaming Japan after the end of humanity.
It's full-color, four-panel weirdness, and there's something really engaging about that.
Fair warning the bonus chapter has nothing to do with the main story (per the creator, Yu Ishihara) and it reduced me to a sobbing mess.
If you're sensitive to sad animal stories, you may want to (and c... review 1 comment Blue Thermal Mar 10, 12:00 1 comment anime There's nothing that's actively bad about the movie, and a likable protagonist goes a long way towards keeping things breezy and enjoyable, but its pleasures are mild, and the experience of watching it is almost instantly forgettable.
Blue Thermal fits into the genre of slice-of-life anime centered around students partaking in a school club together.
Somewhat unusual for the genre, it takes place i... column 9 comments This Week in Games - Welcome To The Next Saiyan Level Mar 10, 11:00 9 comments games It's birthday, so Jean-Karlo takes the opportunity to gush about the beloved KOF character and SNK games' unique history in Mexico.
Also, Twitch cracks down on deepfakes, Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi returns and more in This Week in Games!
Welcome back, everyone!
I hope you're looking forward to starting your weekend with some game news!
I could definitely use a break, I had a very busy... feature 8 comments The Double Writer's Guide to Kamen Rider Mar 10, 09:00 8 comments live-action With Hideaki Anno's Shin Kamen Rider hitting Japanese theaters, now's a good time to sink into the series.
Here's a guide on the best films and shows available in North America.
With Hideaki Anno's Shin Kamen Rider hitting Japanese theaters, we decided it may not be a bad time to take a look at the slowly but surely growing collection of Kamen Rider series and films available in North America.
In t... review 3 comments Blue Box GN 3 Mar 9, 12:00 3 comments manga Regardless of where the romantic component of the story goes, if it continues to develop its theme of straightforward dedication with believably emotional moments, I definitely will find myself constantly coming back to the series.
I wouldn't go so far as to call Blue Box a traditional sports manga.
The story doesn't really go into the mechanics of badminton or basketball.
Even though the artwork i... column 1 comment This Week in Anime - And the Award for Best Anime Awards Goes To... Mar 9, 09:00 1 comment industry Beyond arguing about whether your fave made it in, what's the point of anime awards?
Chris and Nicky discuss the pros of the various fan and industry awards ceremonies.
Beyond arguing about whether your fave made it in, what's the point of anime awards?
Chris and Nicky discuss the pros of the various fan and industry awards ceremonies.
Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed by the participan... game review 1 comment PARANORMASIGHT: The Seven Mysteries of Honjo Mar 8, 10:00 1 comment games While missed opportunities keep PARANORMASIGHT from being a truly standout game, I still enjoyed the process of uncovering the story, even if it goes into some truly off-the-wall directions in its end-game content.
PARANORMASIGHT: The Seven Mysteries of Honjo is a horror visual novel written and created for me, personally.
I do not know how director and scenario writer Takanari Ishiyama tapped into... feature 1 comment Hands-on With VR Mar 8, 09:00 1 comment events Ever wanted to run around the Hidden Leaf Village to team up with Naruto and friends to fight ninjas?
Then have I got the game for you.
Ever wanted to run around the Hidden Leaf Village to team up with Naruto and friends to fight ninjas?
Then have I got the game for you.
From March 21 to May 28, VR will be playable on the fourth floor of DiverCity in Odaiba, Tokyo.
ANN was able to try... game review FATAL FRAME: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse Mar 8, 08:00 games Fatal Frame: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse sadly never came to the United States to the disappointment of many fans fifteen years ago.
KOEI Tecmo is here to right that old wrong, giving us the long-awaited localization.
Was it worth the wait?
Fatal Frame: Mask of the Lunar Eclipse sadly never came to the United States in 2008, to the disappointment of many fans fifteen years ago.
KOEI Tecmo is here to ... All material Copyright Anime News Network LLC.
All rights reserved.
served by ruka-chan Report a Problem News Convention reports Newsfeed Interest Press Releases Views Features Reviews Columns New Anime Your Score for Recent Simulcasts Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings Winter 2023 Preview Guide Daily Streaming Reviews Encyclopedia Forum My ANN Subscribe My Anime My Manga Newsletter ANN:Connect About Our Team Contact us Staff openings Privacy policy Copyright policy Advertise with ANN FAQ Report a Problem Bugs & Technical Questions Forum foot Infolinks disabled
