Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code Shows Manga News Forums Store Premium Try Free Login Queue Random Search Search header Steven Spielberg Talks About His Meeting with Hayao Miyazaki at "Ready Player One" Talk Event in Tokyo "His 'Spirited Away' is one of the greatest animated films ever made."
Mikikazu Komatsu April 20, 2018 12:30am PDT (6 hours ago) Tweet After the Japanese premiere event for his latest film Ready Player One yesterday, director Steven Spiellberg also attended a talk session along with three cast of the film: Tye Sheridan (Parzival/Wade Watts), Olivia Cooke (Art3mis/Samantha Cook), and Win Morisaki (Daito/Toshiro).
In the session with Japanese students who were hoping to work in the film industry and become visual creators, he spoke about his love for Japanese pop culture and meeting with renowned anime director Hayao Miyazaki in the past.
"I think my favorite Japanese character is the motorcycle from Akira .
I love that machine," then he added, "The runner-up for me, I gotta love MechaGodzilla."
Asked about his impression of Japanese artists' creativity, he answered, "I especially, you know, admire the whole world of Miyazaki, and his taste and his storytelling abilities.
His Spirited Away is one of the greatest animated films ever made, might be better than any Disney film I've ever seen.
He was a real influence I got."
"I got to meet him.
I brought my daughter here to Tokyo and I had a chance about eleven or twelve years ago to meet with him," then remembered the content of their conversation, "We talked about the process of what comes first, the story or the characters.
And he was expressing the fact that the story is the character.
For him, the characters are the story."
MAiDiGI TV has posted three video reports of the event.
Spiellberg mentioned Akira and Miyazaki in the middle of the second video (03:40-08:45).
Talk session in Tokyo Part 1 Part 2 Part 3 https://t.co/11SkskGUMb MANTANWEB (@mantanweb) via: Mantan Web Tags steven spielberg , hayao miyazaki , ready player one Previous Post Idol Unit AOP Shows Off Their Dance Performance in "Cutie Honey Universe" OP Song MV Next Post Spaghetti Girl "Napolitan" is Back with Her Rival "Meat Sousui" Voiced by Maaya Uchida Other Top News TRIGGER's Hiromi Wakabayashi Answers Burning DARLING in the FRANXX Fan Questions in Reddit AMA Peter's Spring Anime 2018 Premiere Recommendations Schwi Comes Undone in "No Game No Life" Figure Crunchyroll to Kick Off a Weekend Anime Block on Brazilian TV 3 Comments Spoiler Sort by: Top Recent Related Article Gundam Spotted in New "Ready Player One" Trailer Read More Popular Shows Dragon Ball Super One Piece The Ancient Magus' Bride Food Wars!
Shokugeki no Soma BORUTO: NARUTO NEXT GENERATIONS Naruto Shippuden Black Clover Gintama Platforms and Devices Wii U Chromecast Xbox One Xbox 360 PlayStation 4 PlayStation 3 Playstation Vita Apple iOS Android Windows Phone Apple TV Roku Box Premium Memberships Two-Week Free Trial Compare Plans Gift Memberships Redeem Crunchyroll/VRV Gift Card Language English (US) English (UK) (Brasil) (Portugal) (France) Deutsch Italiano Support Help/FAQ Outreach Crunchyroll Store Order History Payment Settings Shipping Settings Store Information Crunchyroll About Jobs Advertising Copyright Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy New RSS Follow @Crunchyroll pylon8 : 920621e766-release-2018-04-11
